---
layout: post
title: Week 1: The meaning of open source
---

Now, when I hear the term “open source”, I think of a product which, under a license, is made available to the public to see, modify, and distribute freely. I think about a community engaging people from around the world who are dedicated to developing a product for greater good.

Some major advantages of open source include: (1) *The cost*: open source content is usually free of charge, though some additional features may cost extra. (2) *Software maintenance*: an open source project with a large community could expect new updates, features, and fixes for as long as the community is active (3) *Freedom to change the software without restriction*: because anyone, at any time, can modify and improve open content, this could mean increased innovation. Many people are drawn to the open-source community because it encourages open collaboration.

However, there are some ways closed source software has advantages over open source. Closed source software usually has dedicated (technical) support teams, well-written documentation, and better usability. The decentralized nature of open source makes it difficult to organize such things. Another issue with open source that is highly contested is the security. Opening source code that is publicly available and mutable allows for black hat hackers users to find and exploit bugs, insert inappropriate content, and and use the code for malicious reasons.

Since enrolling in a class about open source software development, my understanding of open source has changed. I once believed “open source” only referred to software source code which is publicly available. However, this definition is flawed in two major ways: (1) “open source” has become a philosophy covering not only software code, but any thing that is open content or a form of open collaboration. (2) Source code that is publicly available  does not necessarily mean it is open source; it requires an open source license that grants others the right to use.

There are open source projects we may use on a daily basis without even realizing its open source, like Wikipedia. For me, I use open source frameworks in web development projects like React and Redux, to make web interfaces highly responsive and dynamic. To code, I regularly use an open source code editor called Atom.
